In the simplest of terms, an API is a piece of software that plugs one application directly into the data and services of another by 
granting it access to specific parts of a server. APIs let two pieces of software communicate, 
they’re the basis for everything we do on mobile, and they allow us to streamline IT architectures, 
power savvier marketing efforts, and make easier to share data sets.

Like all software, APIs can be pretty straightforward or incredibly complex, 
and there are different ways to program one with different attributes that are better suited to your application. 
Also, with more built-in features comes more overhead—something we’ll see when we look at what SOAP has to offer.


Rest APi

REST is all about simplicity, thanks to HTTP protocols.

REST APIs facilitate client-server communications and architectures. If it’s RESTful, it’s built on this client-server principle, 
with round trips between the two passing payloads of information.

REST APIs use a single uniform interface. This simplifies how applications interact with the API by requiring they all interface in 
the same way, through the same portal. This has advantages and disadvantages; check with your developer to see if this will affect 
implementation changes down the road.

REST is optimized for the web. Using JSON as its data format makes it compatible with browsers.

REST is known for excellent performance and scalability. But, like any technology, it can get bogged down or bog down your app. 
That’s why languages like GraphQL have come along to address problems even REST can’t solve


Difference

SOAP is a protocol. REST is an architectural style. An API is designed to expose certain aspects of an application’s business 
logic on a server, and SOAP uses a service interface to do this while REST uses URIs.

REST APIs access a resource for data (a URI); SOAP APIs perform an operation. REST is an architecture that’s more data-driven; 
SOAP is a standardized protocol for transferring structured information that’s more function-driven.

REST permits many different data formats including plain text, HTML, XML, and JSON, which is a great fit for data and yields more 
browser compatibility; SOAP only uses XML.

Security is handled differently. SOAP supports WS-Security, which is great at the transport level and a bit more comprehensive than SSL,
and more ideal for integration with enterprise-level security tools. Both support SSL for end-to-end security, and REST can use the 
secure version of the HTTP protocol, HTTPS.

SOAP requires more bandwidth; REST requires fewer resources (depending on the API). There’s a little more overhead with SOAP out of 
the gate, on account of the envelope-style of payload transport. Because REST is used primarily for web services, its being lightweight
is an advantage in those scenarios.

REST calls can be cached, SOAP-based calls cannot be cached. Data can be marked as cacheable, which means it can be reused by 
the browser later without having to initiate another request back to the server. This saves time and resources.

An API is built to handle your app’s payload, and REST and SOAP do this differently. A payload is data sent over the internet, and 
when a payload is “heavy,” it requires more resources. REST tends to use HTTP and JSON, which lighten the payload; SOAP relies more 
on XML.



https://www.upwork.com/hiring/development/soap-vs-rest-comparing-two-apis/
